# robotic-arm
Project developed for the high school graduation final exam.
It's a robotic arm capable to draw simple images or move objects with a claw.

## Description
The robotic arm has been build with ordinary servo-motors and joints designed by myself using SolidWorks and created via 3D-printing (files [here](/solid%20works%20arm%20design)).  
It has two different working configurations:
- **Drawing**: the arm is equipped with a slot for a pancil. An image is processed using a python script, controlled commands are sent via serial communication and executed.
- **Claw**: the arm is controlled via radiocontroller (Turnigy TGY-i6 AFHDS) to move in the 3D space and open/close a claw.

## Python folder
- [braccio](/python/braccio.py): generates a txt file containing the coordinates of the points the arm must follow to draw the image.
- [classes](/python/classes.py): contains basic classes to manage points an lines. It's used in [braccio](/python/braccio.py) to create the drawing steps.
- [comunicazioneArduino_1_0](/python/comunicazioneArduino_1_0.py): manages the communications with the Arduino controlling the servomotors. It reads the file generated by [braccio](/python/braccio.py) and sends the correct commands to the robotic arm.
- [disegna](/python/disegna.py): simulates the drawing process of the robotic arm using the `turtle` library. 
- [dfs](/python/dfs_1_1.py): generates a txt file like [braccio](/python/braccio.py), but implementing a DPS graph visit to compute the drawing steps ([previous version](/python/dfs.py)).
- Code testing: [proveCV_test](/python/proveCV_test.py), [testComunicazioneArduino](/python/testComunicazioneArduino.py), [testBraccio](/python/testBraccio.py).
- Test files: `1.jpg`, `lines.txt`, `prova.jpg`, `prova.txt`.

## Arduino folder
Containing different scripts, e.g. reading the receiver linked to the radiocontroller (e.g. `RX_PCI_MUX`), controlling the robotic arm via python script (`braccio_automatico`), using the calw config. (`braccio_pinza`, `braccio_radiocomandato`), testing scripts used in the development (e.g. `test_pwm_2`, `controllo_vel_motori`, `test_comunicazione_python`).

## LAST VERSIONS folder
Contains the working scripts for each application:
- [arduino, claw](/LAST%20VERSIONS/arduino%2C%20claw): arduino script to control the robotic arm in claw configuration.
- [arduino, drawing](/LAST%20VERSIONS/arduino%2C%20drawing): arduino script that reads and executes commands received on serial port.
- [python, drawing](/LAST%20VERSIONS/python%2C%20drawing): it's devided in two main scripts:
  - [image_analysis](/LAST%20VERSIONS/python%2C%20drawing/image_analysis.py): generates a txt file containing the coordinates of the points the arm must follow to draw the image.  Images examples are saved in the folder [images](/LAST%20VERSIONS/python%2C%20drawing/images) and the image to be analysed is specified in the [config file](/LAST%20VERSIONS/python%2C%20drawing/config.txt). The generated file is saved as `path.txt`.
  - [Arduino_communication](/LAST%20VERSIONS/python%2C%20drawing/Arduino_communication.py): generates and sends the commands to the robotic arm via serial port based on the text file `path.txt`.
